Introduction to Git and Github

Git is a distributed version control system. It was developed by Linus Torvalds in
2005 for Developers working on the Linux Kernel and is being maintained by a large
community across the world. Every Git working directory is a full-fledged repository
with complete history and full version-tracking capabilities, independent of network
access or a central server.

Github on the other hand is a Web User-Interface with a Cloud Hosting Service that
allows for the maintenance of Git Repositories on Cloud. Github provides a whole host
of services that are conducive of Project Management with Issue Tracking and deploying
the Application with CI/CD Pipelines.

In the first Week of Codewayy Open-Source Mentorship, we will be taking a look at few
of the topics that are detailed below.

Day 1: Basics of Git and Github

In the first Day, we will discuss the basics of Git and Github and how we can set it
up on the Local Machine. We will also discuss topics like:

What is Git?
What is Version Control System?
How to configure Git?

Day 2: Managing Projects with Git

In the second Day, we will discuss the usecases of Git with respect to Project
Management and how we can make use of it for our purpose. We will discuss topics like:

What are Repositories on Git?
Creating Repositories on Git?
Commiting changes on Git Repository
Project Workflow in Git
Pushing Git Projects to Github

Day 3: Working on Github

In the third Day, we will see how the Project Management is done on Github. We will
dicuss topics like:

Forking a Repository on Github
Making a Pull Request on Github
Creating Branches on Github
Pushing changes on Github

Day 4: Managing Issues and Code through Git

In the fourth Day, we will explore concepts to further improve our familiarity with
Git and Github. We will discuss topics like:

What is Git Merge?
Branching, Merging and Deleting Branch in Git
Merge Conflicts in Git
Stashing Git Commits
Cherry-Picking Commits
Creating Issues on Github

Day 5: Assignment on Git and Github

In the fifth Day, we will finally go through all the topics that we have explored
earlier. We will go through all the concepts and it is expected that with this
assignment, you can iron out any doubts that you have about Git and Github.
We expect at the end of the first week, you can manage your projects and contribute to
different projects with a strict understanding of Git and Github.